---
layout: post
title: "A Month Note"
excerpt: >
  Weeknotes S01E06 - S01E09 - 7 March 2021
---

# A Month Note

I always wondered how my colleagues were able to consistently write weeknotes.
How do they work up the enthusiasm?

Now that I'm trying it myself, I'm finding that it's pretty much just as
difficult as I thought. For the last few weeks I just haven't been able to face
it.

It's been tough, the last few weeks. There's a fair bit going on at work, and
most of it is stuff I don't enjoy and don't feel like I'm good at -
recruitment, people moves, management, governance and planning. Context
switching between all these things makes it feel like I'm not doing any of them
well, and that's demoralising.

Objectively, things are probably not nearly as bad as I think. I'm doing the
best job I can in less-than-ideal circumstances. There have been some wins, for
sure. A long running campaign to promote four of our developers finally got
sorted out, which I should be thrilled about. I'm making good progress on lots
of other fronts too. But even the wins feel like I'm collapsing over the finish
line with no energy left to celebrate.

So yeah, I'm finding things difficult. I'm going to book some holiday in, and
hopefully that will let me reset. I'm encouraging the people I work with to do
the same.

But enough about that, what's been going on in the world?

## In the news

President Trump was acquitted. A lawyer wasn't a cat.

## Culture

I've been binge watching [The
Expanse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Expanse_(TV_series)), which is a
hard sci-fi drama. It's really excellent. The first season in particular has
some wonderful little details - the way whisky pours in low gravity, or the way
birds fly with the occasional lazy flap of their wings. The plot is nicely
paced, and doesn't require too much suspension of disbelief.

## Exercise

It got really snowy a few weeks back, and I holed myself up in the house all
week. Now that the sun is back, I've made it out on a few slightly longer
walks, which have felt nice. Still haven't made it out for a run, but who
knows? Maybe one day.

## Work

### A changing of the guard

There was a major changing of the guard on GOV.UK.

Tim, our long time Head of Technology moved to the cabinet office's Chief
Digital Information Office, resuming his role as a Lead Technical Architect.
Tim's been an incredible support and inspiration to me in my year on GOV.UK,
and the programme will sorely miss him.

Himal joined us as Head of Technology and Architecture (the role name subtly
altered to reflect its hefty scope). It can't be easy starting a role like
that when everyone's remote, but from what I can see he's been doing a stellar
job. It's very exciting to a new perspective and fresh ideas in the most senior
technical role on GOV.UK. Welcome Himal!

### Talking to our infrastructure providers

We had a couple of video calls with our infrastructure providers (Fastly, our
CDN provider, and AWS our infrastructure provider).

I can't remember how much of what they said is covered by non-disclosure
agreements, so this section is going to be a bit boring.

They answered lots of questions, and gave us a bit of a sneak peak at their
roadmaps. We made puppy-dog eyes and begged for preview access to some of their
shiny new features.

### Replatforming Router

The Replatforming team has been thinking about
[Router](https://github.com/alphagov/router/) for a while. It's kind of like
the front door to GOV.UK. Well, maybe not the front door, because we have a CDN
and some load balancers in front of it. Maybe like the door inside a porch.
Because we're changing the infrastructure it sits on, some of the architectural
choices made in designing router don't make sense any more. Karl put together
[a Request for Comment (RFC) to change the way it reloads its
routes](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-rfcs/pull/135), which we've been
discussing. Bill came up with [a way to have multiple Routers sharing the same
database, but using different
domains](https://github.com/alphagov/router/pull/188). This will let us run
independent clusters of apps in the same environment without needing to move
databases around.

The team also looked at some of our redundancy plans, to check that we'd be
able to use them if we needed them. In some places it looks like we've got a
bit more redundancy than we really need. I'm preparing another [RFC to remove
the backup CDN for our backup
CDN](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-rfcs/pull/136).

### The Exploding Whale of Florence, Oregon

Apropos of nothing, here's a 1970 news report of the Oregon Highways division
disposing of a dead whale:

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V6CLumsir34](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V6CLumsir34) 

### Roadmapping

GOV.UK published our roadmap publicly for the first time in years -
[https://www.gov.uk/roadmap](https://www.gov.uk/roadmap).

We're already thinking about the next iteration of the roadmap - what we'll do
over the next year. I've spent quite a bit of time over the last few weeks
talking to various teams working around the publishing area of GOV.UK, trying
to work out how all our plans fit together, and into the big strategic picture.
It's really great getting a chance to listen to the experts talk about their
areas.

### Governance

I honestly never thought my life would turn out this way.

I've been thinking and writing about "Governance" - how GOV.UK makes decisions
that affect its roadmap and its people and teams.

GOV.UK has been through a period where it has had to deliver critical
priorities with inflexible deadlines. For good reason, putting formal processes
around decision making hasn't been a priority.

Now that things are calming down (a bit) we've got an opportunity to design
processes that will let us make these decisions in a calm and considered way,
and ensure that everyone who's affected feels included and informed.

### Interviews

I chaired three interviews for an interim site reliability engineer role, and
arranged one interview for a developer role (which unfortunately got
postponed).

I still need to schedule three more developer interviews.

## End of weeknote

👏 well done me. I'm back on the weeknote horse. Hopefully I'll be able to
stick to a weekly cadence.

