---
layout: post
title: "A little more conversation, a little less action"
excerpt: >
  Weeknotes S01E05 - 7 February 2021
---

# A little more conversation, a little less action

Good riddance January.

## In the news

The NHS has been doing an amazing job with the vaccine rollout. We spotted a
vaccination center just down the road from us, which is a reassuring reminder
that it's really happening.

The stock market seems to have calmed down, which disappoints me. I was
enjoying the chaos. Speculation continues as to whether the GameStop short
squeeze has squoze. I've no idea, but I'm keeping an eye on it from a distance.

The so-called "Beast from the East 2" has arrived, bringing wet snow and strong
winds. The snow is pretty, but going outside is now even less pleasant than it
was.

## Real life

Claire and I did a remote Murder Mystery game over Zoom on Saturday. My
character was a posh wine merchant called Byron. Somehow, I didn't find it all
that hard to get into character. Neither of us was the murderer, which was a
relief.

## Culture

Less reading this week, more TV.

We finished watching Self Made, a Netflix drama detailing the career of Madam
CJ Walker (born to enslaved parents, she became the first female self-made
millionaire in America). I thought it was very good. It's an uplifting, and
thoroughly American story - a scrappy entrepreneur, working hard, building
their own American dream. Despite all the horrors of slavery, the first
generation of emancipated black Americans were able to achieve so much. And yet
in our modern world, social mobility seems as hard as ever. Systemic racism and
structural inequality still hold people back. There is so much work that still
needs to be done.

Dark Waters is based on [a New York Times news
article](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/10/magazine/the-lawyer-who-became-duponts-worst-nightmare.html).
It describes how the chemical company DuPont knowingly and deliberately
poisoned their workers, and around 70,000 local residents. It's a true modern
horror story. Well worth a watch if you're looking for something dark.

Wales play Ireland in the Six Nations. I'm not massively into sport, but I make
an exception for international rugby, particularly when Wales are playing. It
wasn't the best match, and Wales were lucky to scrape through. It was a bit
weird to see them play without crowds due to the pandemic, but watching the
game actually felt like a small, welcome piece of normality.

## Exercise

ðŸ™ˆ

## Work

I kicked the week off talking with some of the lead product and delivery
managers about our vision for the future of GOV.UK's publishing platform. We
discussed a mental model of the product which separates "Services" and
"Enabling Services". Services being end-to-end journeys that a member of the
public would recognise (start a business, have a baby, etc.), and enabling
services being the things we need to build to make these work (publishing and
updating content, sending emails to notify people when things change, looking
up which local authority a postcode belongs to, etc.).

It's helpful to consider these things separately because it can help us see
when we're spending too much of our time working directly on services and not
investing enough in the software that underpins them.

We reused a process I was experimenting with last year. Each service and
enabling service gets a card on a Trello board. Links between them are encoded
as hyperlinks. I wrote [a little
script](https://github.com/richardTowers/trello-zettelkasten) back in the day
that draws a map of which cards link to which others. It's
[ropey](https://github.com/richardTowers/trello-zettelkasten/blob/main/main.rb#L142-L170),
but it works. A quick way of putting together a diagram that shows how features
fit together. It was nice to be able to reuse an old bit of code.

The automated tests I wrote for our DNS config last week correctly flagged an
issue this week, which was satisfying. It was minor (correct DNS servers, but
not configured to serve the SOA yet), but I like to think it might have saved
us a tiny bit of manual work.

A couple of conversations about moving people between teams made a little bit
of progress.

Our current process for moving people between teams is not great. Things start
with a few ad hoc conversations, and then have a tendency to snowball into
decisions without proper consultation. It's difficult. GOV.UK is doing a lot of
important work, and any move that leaves a team with fewer people is going to
cause problems. But changes have to happen from time to time.

Making things open would probably make things better. Words to live by.

![Make things open it makes them better - stickers from GDS](/static/images/make-things-open-stickers.jpg)

The replatforming team had a busy week.

We had a catch up with our two new deputy directors, who asked some insightful
questions and gave us lots of food for thought. There's a looming deadline
driving the work, which means we haven't been able to prioritise some of the
things we'd really like to do. In particular, it would be great to get better
measures of the performance of the current platform (things like availability,
time to patch vulnerabilities, time to recover from incidents, engineering time
spent on toil). Without these metrics it will be hard to know for sure whether
the new platform is living up to our hopes. But these things are not as easy to
measure as they sound.

The GOV.UK Pay team kindly invited me to a progress meeting for their
equivalent to the replatforming team. They're doing very similar work to us,
and there are lots of crossovers. We've both spotted the same lack of features
in the hyperscale cloud platform we're both using. In a couple of these areas
GOV.UK have already designed workarounds, so we should be able to share those
and save them some time.

After [my big refactoring
PR](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-infrastructure/pull/150) of last week,
the replatforming team have been able to pick up the idea and run with it. In
[great PR](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-infrastructure/pull/152/) after
[great PR](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-infrastructure/pull/154), the team
has eliminated about 1,000 lines of terraform boilerplate. Feels good. Last
week I was feeling pretty bad about being too hands on with this work, so it's
amazing to see the team click with the direction I was going in, pick it up and
run with it.

One of our tech leads raised [an RFC proposing an architecture for session
cookies on GOV.UK](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-rfcs/pull/134) to support
the GOV.UK Account. This was a really nice piece of writing, and a well thought
out architecture. It led to some good discussion, and throughout the week the
team have been iterating the document. A couple of questions remain, so we've
extended the deadline by a few days to make room for more discussion.

At the end of the week, Bevan and I managed to make a bit of progress
organising recruitment. Bevan's been doing the lion's share of the work finding
panelists for the next round of interviews, but hopefully I was able to help a
little bit by reusing a script I wrote for the last campaign.

Interview panels at GDS need to be diverse. Every panel has at least one person
from an underrepresented gender and an underrepresented ethnic background. We
also make sure that for internal candidates, at least one person on the panel
will be from a different programme to them.

These rules are all sensible, but when you're scheduling lots of interviews
they can be a bit of a headache. It's not that hard to come up with panels that
meet the rules, but still. Feels like a job for a machine.

There's also a risk that by doing things manually, we'd end up relying on the
same few women of colour to sit on lots of panels. While interviewing is
something we're all expected to do, it's deeply unfair if colleagues from
underrepresented backgrounds have to bear most of the burden.

In the spirit of using a sledgehammer to crack an acorn, my script uses [the
CP-SAT solver from Google's
OR-Tools](https://developers.google.com/optimization/cp/cp_solver) project.
This lets me [express the problem as a series of boolean
conditions](https://github.com/richardTowers/gds-schedule-a-software-interview/blob/main/app/panel_generator.py),
and hey presto, out pops a solution.

I tidied my script up a bit on Friday, and exposed it through a little web
interface. It's actually relatively easy to use, once you know how, so it might
actually prove useful to people who aren't me.

My email management was a little bit better this week. There wasn't an obvious
point where I lost control, but it's all still a bit of a mess.

Finally, I said hello to Himal on Friday. He'll be joining us soon as GOV.UK's
new Head of Technology and Architecture. It's really exciting to have another
senior technologist joining, and from first impressions Himal sounds like he's
going to be great. I hope the ranty cabal of developers and architects that he
met with didn't put him off too much!

## End of weeknote

I think I was partly successful in my aim to step back from writing code and
actually do some leader-y things. It's still uncomfortable territory for me,
but I guess we get better at these things by facing up to them.

More of the same this week.
