---
layout: post
title: "Peace, and dawn's one star"
tags: [weeknotes]
excerpt: >
  Weeknotes S01E03 - 24 January 2021
---

# Peace, and dawn's one star

Our Christmas decorations finally came down this week. 2021 has started for
real now. I hope the worst of it is already behind us.

## Real life

I had a couple of days off in the middle of the week. On Wednesday I celebrated
my birthday, and watched America celebrate the inauguration. Claire pulled out
all the stops, so I had bunting, presents, fizz, cake, the works. About as good
a birthday as it's legally possible to have these days.

Sadly, Thursday was another funeral. This time for my Grandfather, Ron. Again,
the coronavirus restrictions meant few people, and lots of social distance.
Nevertheless, it was lovely to catch up with family, and share some great
memories of an amazing man. My cousin read some Siegfried Sassoon:

> And standing there
>
> Till that calm song is done, at last we’ll share
>
> The league-spread, quiring symphonies that are
>
> Joy in the world, and peace, and dawn’s one star.

## Culture

We watched a few good films this week: Three Billboards Outside Ebbing
Missouri, Bombshell, Big. Some dark, some light, but all great in their own
way. We finished off Folklore (the Taylor Swift documentary), and embarked on
Netflix's Lupin, which is good fun.

I got a couple of Jon Sopel's books for my birthday - I'll probably make a
start on these this week, while the chaos of the American election is still
fresh in my memory.

Watching the Taylor documentary lead to an impulsive purchase of a piano
keyboard. We'll see whether Claire and I can recall any of our childhood piano
lessons. So far, I've been able to tap out a cracking rendition of the C Major
scale.

## Exercise

On Saturday I put my running kit on, but I did not go for a run 😬

## Work

Taking a couple of days off meant this was a short week. I finally managed to
get on top of my emails, only to lose track again while I was off. They're back
under control now.

I've taken the extreme move of turning on desktop notifications for new emails,
which might stop me from ignoring some of them.

We had an incident retrospective for the "Oops" incident from the week before.
It was a complex incident, but I think we came up with some sensible actions.
We pretty much know how to fix the root cause, although doing so looks like it
will be a chunk of work (and will probably involve some database upgrades which
are never fun). Needs to happen though.

This incident showed up some more gaps in our monitoring. We discussed how we
might be able to do better with more user focused monitoring. GOV.UK has looked
at defining Service Level Objectives (SLOs) many times in the past, but they've
never stuck. To work well, SLOs need to mean something to our product managers
and senior stakeholders. I'm going to re-start some conversations in this area,
and see if we can make something stick this time.

GDS' Technology Community has a "monthly" catchup. Sadly, the regularity of the
meeting ended up slipping due to the pandemic, so this week marked the first
we'd had in many months. Better late than never though! I thought the meeting
was a real success - I felt more like a part of the GDS Tech Community than I
have in a while, and we heard some really interesting lightning talks. Things
stayed positive, even when we were discussing "capability assessments", which
is nothing short of a miracle.

I landed [a](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-infrastructure/pull/138)
[few](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-infrastructure/pull/139)
[more](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-infrastructure/pull/144) pieces of
refactoring into the new govuk-infrastructure repo. It's been a long slog, but
it really feels like it's getting there now. The world is nearly ready for my
"Big Brain" task definition idea.

Behind the scenes, I've been thinking about using the
[tflint](https://github.com/terraform-linters/tflint) terraform linter to
enforce some patterns around our use of [terraform
workspaces](https://www.terraform.io/docs/state/workspaces.html). I needed to
make a couple of tweaks upstream to get this working nicely, which got merged
today ([tweaking the order that tflint calls plugin
initializers](https://github.com/terraform-linters/tflint/pull/1043) and
[enabling plugin authors to write tests which refer to the terraform
workspace](https://github.com/terraform-linters/tflint-plugin-sdk/pull/99)).
Now these have landed, I've got my [tflint-ruleset-workspaces
plugin](https://github.com/richardTowers/tflint-ruleset-workspaces/) working.
I'm hopeful that this will allow us to use the workspaces feature in a
future-proof way - without a linter, it's all too easy to create resources
which will conflict with things in other workspaces.

Our recruitment is really moving again, with lots of phone interviews landing
in people's calendars. I'm looking forward to doing a few of these on Tuesday,
then it's time to start thinking about putting together panels for face-to-face
interviews.

## End of weeknote

Another difficult week, but I'm hopeful that things should start looking up
now. I've got a full week ahead of me, but if it goes well I think I should
start to feel on top of things.

I'm very curious about this piano thing… Will I be able to get back to my
former elite (grade 2) level?!

